<div class="lead">According to Syncellus, Apollodoros of Athens recorded a list of Theban kings taken from <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eratosthenes" target="_blank">Eratosthenes of Cyrene</a>.</div>

<p class="pt-3">However, Apollodorus and Eratosthenes are considered to be <i>pseudonymous</i> authors, meaning that someone else wrote this list and used the names of two well known and respected authors to lend it an air of authority. Some of the names listed can be found in Manetho and Herodotus, suggesting there might be a common, but corrupted, source behind the list, as some of the names have no similarity whatsoever with other known lists. As a chronological list it is useless.<br><br>This list is included here only as a curiosity. In all likelyhood, Eratosthenes was <u>not</u> the author of this list.</p>
<blockquote>
	<p>The chronicler Apollodoros recorded another dynasty of 38 Egyptian kings, the Thebans, as they are called, who ruled for 1076 years. This dynasty commenced in AM 2900, and came to an end in AM 3045. The knowledge of these kings, he says, Eratosthenes received from Egyptian records and registers and at royal request he translated them into the Greek language, as follows  (Adler & Tuffin: 128)<br><br>The reign of the thirty-eight so-called Theban kings in Egypt, whose names Eratosthenes took from the sacred scribes in Diospolis and deciphered from Egyptian into the Greek language, ceased at this point. Commencing in AM 2900, 124 years after the confusion of tongues, it ceased to exist in this year AM 3975. As to the tradition preserved by Apollodoros about the other fifty-three Theban kings who succeeded them, we deem it unnecessary to set forth their names here, since we have nothing to gain in citing them. For the names of their predecessors are also of no value.</p>
	<p class="text-right">Syncellus</p>
</blockquote>
<p class="px-3 pt-5">The list of king is as follows:</p>
