---
layout: /src/layouts/Layout.astro
title: "The Seventh Dynasty of Ancient Egypt"
pagename: Seventh Dynasty of Egypt
pubDate: 2024-08-28
description: "Dynasty 7 of ancient Egypt"
tags: ["dynasty", "dynasty vii", "manetho", "canons"]
author: "Peter Lundström"
image:
url: "/images/dyn7.webp"
alt: "Dynasty Seven"
---

<p class="lead">
The existence of a seventh dynasty is attributable to an error in the epitome(s) employed by Africanus and Eusebius.
</p>

<p>The original Aegyptiaca was epitomised, as was usual in antiquity. However, it is clear that the original text was either misunderstood, misinterpreted or altered by a copyist. Unfortunately, this copy was then used by later authors as if it were the original.</p>

<h3>The text transmitted by Africanus and Eusebius</h3>
<div class="mx-auto w-fit pb-3">
	<p><b>According to Africanus:</b><br>
		<span class="gr">Ἑβδόμη δυναστεία Μεμφιτῶν βασιλέων <b>Οʹ</b>, οἳ ἐβασίλευσαν ἡμέρας <b>Οʹ</b>.</span><br>
		<i>70 kings of the Seventh Dynasty of Memphis ruled for 70 days.</i>
		<br><br>
		<b>According to Eusebius:</b><br>
		<span class="gr">Ἑβδόμη δυναστεία Μεμφιτῶν βασιλέων <b>πέντε</b>, οἳ ἐβασίλευσαν ἡμέρας <b>ΟΕʹ</b>.</span><br>
		<i>Five kings of the Seventh Dynasty of Memphis ruled for 75 days.</i>
		<br><br>
		<b>According to the Armenian translation of Eusebius:</b><br>
		<span lang="xcl">Եօթներորդ հարստութիւն Մեմփացւոց <b>Ե</b> թագաւորաց. որք թագաւորեցին ամս <b>ՀԵ</b></span><br>
		<i>Seventh dynasty of 5 Memphite kings who reigned for 75 years.</i>
	</p>
	<p class="text-center pb-4 text-sm italic">Original numerals are written as <b>bold</b> above.</p>
</div>

<p>
	It is evident that the figures presented are untenable. It is probable that this is the result of a misunderstanding or an error on the part of the copyist. The figure of 75 days as presented by Eusebius is likely to be a mere copying error, exchanging 'days' for 'years', as preserved in the Armenian translation. However, the assertion that there were 70 kings for 70 days (or years) is highly improbable. It has been suggested that this may have been a metaphor to highlight the disorganisation of the time, but the original source would probably have simply noted this instead of taking this roundabout route.<br />It is more likely that the original source text was minunderstood or simply misinterpreted, which is at least partially corroborated by the different numbers from Africanus. 
</p>

<p>
Following the decline of the <a href="/dynasty/6">Sixth Dynasty</a>, the entirety of the <a href="/periods/first-intermediate-period">First Intermediate Period</a> represents a particularly challenging historical epoch. The few historical records are incomplete and scarce, which makes it challenging to draw definitive conclusions.
</p>

<p>The <a href="/kinglists/abydos-canon">Abydos Canon</a> contains 17 cartouches between the last king of the Sixth Dynasty, Nemtiemsaf II, and Mentuhotep II of the Eleventh Dynasty, while the <a href="/kinglists/turin">Turin King List</a> contains a total of 29 kings. (Columns 5.7-5.13, 5.18-26, 6.1-9 and 6.12-6.15). Mentuhotep II is present in 6.16, while Nemtiemsaf II’s name is missing in 5.6, but inferred from the 90+x years in 5.5, which is attributable to his predecessor Pepi II. The Manethonian king lists account for four dynasties (7-10), yet the total number of kings is not consistent with the data presented in the New Kingdom lists. This discrepancy is a clear indication that the sources for the information must have been significantly disparate.
</p>

<table>
	<caption class="text-sm pt-2">Table 1: Number of kings</caption>
	<tr class="text-black dark:text-white">
		<th>Dynasty</th>
		<th class="text-center">Africanus</th>
		<th class="text-center">Eusebius</th>
		<th class="text-center">Turin King List</th>
		<th class="text-center">Abydos Canon</th>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>7</td>
		<td class="text-right pr-10">70</td>
		<td class="text-right pr-10">5</td>
		<td rowspan="4" class="text-center">29</td>
		<td rowspan="4" class="text-center">17</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>8</td>
		<td class="text-right pr-10">28</td>
		<td class="text-right pr-10">5</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>9</td>
		<td class="text-right pr-10">19</td>
		<td class="text-right pr-10">4</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>10</td>
		<td class="text-right pr-10">19</td>
		<td class="text-right pr-10">19</td>
	</tr>
	<tr class="border-t-2 border-white/50 dark:border-shark-600 text-black dark:text-white">
		<td></td>
		<td class="text-right pr-10">135</td>
		<td class="text-right pr-10">33</td>
		<td class="text-center">28</td>
		<td class="text-center">17</td>
	</tr>
</table>

<p>
	The Abydos Canon is a broadly chronological compilation of kings, but it omits numerous kings. In contrast, the <em>Turin King List</em>, is the sole surviving example of a clearly chronological list of Egyptian kings. While the majority of the list aligns with other chronological evidence, there are some inconsistencies that render the veracity of its content challenging to ascertain, especially the numerous lacunae. However, it is likely to remain the most reliable source of information on this topic. The <a href="/dynasty/8">Eighth Dynasty</a> should be considered a direct continuation of the <a href="/dynasty/6">Sixth Dynasty</a>.
</p>
